# Soundscape Preview Explanation

For my preview, I decided to browse [Freesound](https://freesound.org/) for a majority of the audio samples that I included. This was mainly due to the fact that I don't have access to the proper camping supplies to record in the woods myself and that a majority of the sounds I want to incorporate are intended to act as the foundational framework for the rest of my narrative. I thought that by layering audio tracks such as the water flowing from a nearby stream, the crackling of a campfire, and the chirping of cicadas, the environment would be immediately recognizable as the outdoors and that the listener would be immersed in such soundscape. After spending most of my time collecting, adjusting, and layering those sound files, I then moved on to a couple of finer details. Firstly, I added footsteps to the beginning of the track and faded in the background ambiance to signify the narrator walking closer to the campsite. I then played around with including snippets of nocturnal wildlife like frogs croaking, owls hooting, and birds calling, adjusting the left/right pan and volume for each to convey a sense of distance from the narrator.


For future drafts, I plan on fine-tuning more details of the soundscape by focusing more on the narrative. For instance, I recorded a couple of sound files like shuffling in a sleeping bag and the zipping of a tent that I could integrate toward the conclusion of the audio track when the narrator heads off to bed. Moreover, to make the soundscape more realistic, I also want to add talking ambiance from my friends' conversations with one another and potentially a campfire song played on the guitar. While seemingly small, I think including those sounds would help evoke a sense of intimacy and warmth that I want to replicate from my spring break trip last year in the Pocono Mountains. Other more minor details include incorporating the crackle of static from a radio's weather forecast channel, experimenting with a mosquito buzzing around the narrator's head using audio panning, and mixing more elements of nature like wind or crickets.

*My soundscape preview files (.aup, _data folder) can be found in the [soundscape](https://github.com/cmgo412/soundscape2021spring/tree/master/soundscape) directory.*
